Chapters 1 and 2 of I Corinthians This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox
recordings are in the public domain. For more information or to volunteer, please visit
LibriVox.org. Recording by Simon. The first epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, King
James Version, Chapter 1. Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ, through the
of God. And Sophanes, our brother, unto the Church of God, which is at Corinth, to them that are
sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all that in every place call upon the name
of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. Grace be unto you, and peace from God our Father,
and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God always on your behalf, for the grace of God,
which is given you by Jesus Christ, that in every thing ye are enriched by him in all utterance and
in all knowledge, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, so that ye come behind in
no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall also confirm you unto the end,
that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom ye were
called unto the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord. Now, I beseech you, brethren,
by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no
divisions among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same
judgment. For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of
Christ, that ye may know that there are contentions among you. Now, this I say, that every one of you
saith, I am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul
crucified for you, or were ye baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you,
but Crispus and Gaius, lest any should say that I had baptized in my own name. And I baptized also
the household of Stephanus. Besides, I know not whether I baptized any other. For Christ sent me
not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ
should be made of none effect. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness.
But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom
of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise?
Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the
wisdom of this world? For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God,
it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a
sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ, crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling
block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks,
Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men,
and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many
wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called. But God hath chosen the
foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world
to confound the things which are mighty, and base things of the world, and things which are despised
hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught things that are, that no flesh
should glory in his presence, but of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom
and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, that according as it is written,
he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Chapter 2. And I, brethren, when I came to you,
came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God.
For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ, and him crucified. And I was
with you in weakness and in fear, and in much trembling, and my speech and my preaching was not
with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power,
that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.
Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world,
nor of the princes of this world that come to naught. But we speak the wisdom of God in a
history, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory,
which none of the princes of this world knew. For had they known it, they would not have crucified
the Lord of glory. But as it is written, I have not seen nor ear heard, neither have it entered
into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.
But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit. For the Spirit searcheth all things,
yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the
spirit of man which is in him. Even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God.
Now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God, that we might know
the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which
man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual.
But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto
him. Neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual
judgeeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man. For who hath known the mind
of the Lord, that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. End of chapter 2.
Reading by Simon Wainwright